---
# Uses this html: "_layout/post.html" as a template.
layout: post 
title:  Projective Varieties
author: taku
# (Optional) Used to sort posts, not supported as of writing this.
categories: [ Open ]
---

[Takunari Miyazaki](takunari.miyazaki@trincoll.edu) (Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut)


Let $\mathbf{F}_q$ be a finite field of order $q\gt 0$. An *affine $\ell$-space* over $\mathbf{F}_q$, denoted by $\mathbf{A}^\ell = \mathbf{A}_{\mathbf{F}_q}^\ell$, is the set of all $\ell$-tuples of elements of $\mathbf{F}_q$. For a polynomial $f \in \mathbf{F}_q [X_1, \ldots, X_\ell]$, let $Z(f)$ denote the {\em zeros} of $f$ in $\mathbf{A}^\ell$, i.e.,

$$
Z(f) = \{ (\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_\ell) \in \mathbf{A}^\ell : f(\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_\ell) = 0 \}.
$$

The following problem is NP-complete (cf. [Val79, Section 2]). It is a consequence of this fact that MIN-RANK and other related problems in linear and multilinear algebra are NP-complete (cf. [BFS99] and [MW]).

>**Affine variety** ($q$) (`AFF-VAR`($q$))
> - *Instance:* a polynomial $f \in \mathbf{F}_q[X_1, \ldots, X_\ell]$.
> - *Question:* $Z(f) \ne \emptyset$?

A *projective $\ell$-space* over $\mathbf{F}_q$, denoted by $\mathbf{P}^\ell = \mathbf{P}_{\mathbf{F}_q}^\ell$, is the set of equivalence classes of $(\ell + 1)$-tuples $(\alpha_0, \alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_\ell)$, where each $\alpha_i \in \mathbf{F}_q$, not all zeros, under the relation defined by $(\alpha_0, \alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_\ell) \sim (\lambda\alpha_0, \lambda\alpha_1, \ldots, \lambda\alpha_\ell)$ for all $\lambda \in \mathbf{F}_q$, $\lambda \ne 0$. An element of $\mathbf{P}^\ell$ is often identified by co\"ordinate ratios $(\beta_1 : \cdots : \beta_\ell)$, where each $\beta_i \in \mathbf{F}_q$. For a homogeneous polynomial $f \in \mathbf{F}_q [X_1, \ldots, X_\ell]$, the {\em zeros} of $f$ in $\mathbf{P}^\ell$ is defined by

$$
Z(f) = \{ (\beta_1 : \cdots : \beta_\ell) \in \mathbf{P}^\ell : f(\beta_1, \ldots, \beta_\ell) = 0 \}.
$$

Now, consider:

> **Projective variety** ($q$) (`PROJ-VAR`($q$))
> - *Instance:* a homogenous polynomial $f \in \mathbf{F}_q [X_1, \ldots, X_\ell]$.
> - *Question:* $Z(f) \ne \emptyset$?



To my knowledge, little is known about the complexity of this problem. I have not seen any proof that it is NP-complete. I have been pondering:

> **Problem:** What is the complexity of `PROJ-VAR`($q$)?

This originally arose while working with J.B. Wilson to investigate the complexity of testing singularity of bilinear maps (cf. [MW]).

---

 - [BFS99] J. F. Buss, G. S. Frandsen and J. O. Shallit, *The computational complexity of some problems of linear algebra*, J. Comput. System Sci. **58** (1999), 572--596.

 - [MW] T. Miyazaki and J. B. Wilson, *Linear-size reductions and completeness in algebra*, preprint.

 - [Val79] L. G. Valiant, *Completeness classes in algebra*, Proceedings of the Eleventh Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, Atlanta, Apr. 30--May 2, 1979, ACM, New York, 1979, pp. 249--261.
